docs(CSS): Move out src docs from dl to sub-doc (#23375)
mdn/content: files/en-us/web/css/@font-face/src/index.md

/* <url> values */
src: url(https://somewebsite.com/path/to/font.woff); /* Absolute URL */
src: url(path/to/font.woff); /* Relative URL */
src: url("path/to/font.woff"); /* Quoted URL */
src: url(path/to/svgFont.svg#example); /* Fragment identifying font */

/* <font-face-name> values */
src: local(font); /* Unquoted name */
src: local(some font); /* Name containing space */
src: local("font"); /* Quoted name */

> src: local("some font"); /* Quoted name containing space */

Reviewer: do you want to make it single quote so people know they can do both?

Author: Good idea

Author: added in 1de84f2e274257db9147e273c1cd8f90eb991100, but I think Prettier will revert this if we let it run over this page again

/* <tech(<font-tech>)> values */

> src: url(path/to/font.otf) tech(color-COLRv1);
> src: url(path/to/font.otf) tech(color-SVG);

Reviewer: if tech() isn't understood, does it fail? 
Suggestions: make the fontfile slightly different so users know these are difference files. 
```suggestion
src: url(path/to/fontCOLRv1.otf) tech(color-COLRv1);
src: url(path/to/fontCOLRsvg.otf) tech(color-SVG);
```
as an example

Reviewer 2: @estelle Just dropping by ...

> if tech() isn't understood, does it fail?

If `tech()` or anything else is not understood then the spec requires that the particular item in the list is dropped, but the rest of the items are parsed. So in theory it shouldn't _fail_ but instead select the next item in the list. 
But earlier versions of most browsers will fail the whole line - the version at which things start to work properly is captured in the BCD Line: "Drop invalid item (not src string)".

For this reason, even though the spec would like just one `src` with all options, you probably have to have multiple src lines with the full src-in-one-line as the last declaration (because the last valid src is the one that gets used). Tried to capture this in https://github.com/mdn/content/pull/23085

This is covered in the note in the description shown below. @bsmth I wonder if we can reference the BCD in the note. Leaving with you.

> Note: Values within descriptors that the browser considers invalid are ignored. Some browsers will ignore the whole descriptor if any item is invalid, even if only one item is invalid. This may affect design of fallbacks.

/* <format(<font-format>)> values */
src: url(path/to/font.woff) format("woff");
src: url(path/to/font.otf) format("opentype");

/* Multiple resources */
src: url(path/to/font.woff) format("woff"), url(path/to/font.otf) format("opentype");

/* Multiple resources with font format and technologies */
src: url("trickster-COLRv1.otf") format(opentype) tech(color-COLRv1), url("trickster-outline.otf")
    format(opentype);
```

### Values

- `url()`

>   - : Specifies an external reference consisting of a {{cssxref("&lt;url&gt;")}}, followed by optional hints using the `format()` and `tech()` component values that specify the format and font technology of the resource referenced by the URL. The `format()` and `tech()` components are a comma-separated list of strings that denote well-known font formats and technologies. If a user agent doesn't support the font technology or formats, it skips downloading the font resource. If no format or technology hints are supplied, the font resource is always downloaded.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  - : Specifies an external reference consisting of a {{cssxref("&lt;url&gt;")}}, followed by optional hints using the `format()` and `tech()` component values that specify the format and font technology of the resource referenced by the URL. The `format()` and `tech()` components are a comma-separated list of strings of known [font formats](#font_formats) and technologies. If a user agent doesn't support the font technology or formats, it skips downloading the font resource. If no format or technology hints are supplied, the font resource is always downloaded.
```

- `format()`
  - : An optional declaration that follows the `url()` value that provides a hint for the user agent on the font format.
    If the value is not supported or invalid, the browser may not download the resource, potentially saving bandwidth.

>     If omitted, the browser will always download the resource and then detect the format.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    If omitted, the browser will download the resource and then detect the format.
```

It won't download if it already downloaded one it groks.

    The preferred value type is a keyword, but may also be provided as a string enclosed in quotes for backward-compatibility reasons.

>     Possible values are described in [Font formats](#font-formats).

Reviewer: is this "possible" or "current" or other? basically, is the table below a definitive list, a current definitive list, or just the ones we know about?

Author: This is a current definitive list, so only these values are possible (and likely not to change any time soon).

>     Possible values are described in [Font formats](#font-formats).

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
    Possible values are described in the [Font formats](#font_formats) section below.
```

- `tech()` {{Experimental_inline}}

>   - : An optional declaration that follows the `url()` value that provides a hint for the user agent on the font technology.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  - : An optional declaration that follows the `url()` value that provides a hint for the user agent on the [font technology](#font_technologies).
```

    The value for `tech()` may be one of the keywords described in [Font technologies](#font-technologies).
- `local(<font-face-name>)`
  - : Specifies the font name should the font be available on the user's device.

>     Quoting the font name is optional.

Reviewer: case sensitive?

Author: It follows [the usual matching algorithm](https://w3c.github.io/csswg-drafts/css-fonts-3/#font-family-casing) for `<font-face-name>` which is not case sensitive. I can add this to the bullet if that helps

>     Quoting the font name is optional.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
    Enclosing the font name in quotes is optional.
```
Enclosing or specifying

- `<font-face-name>`
  - : Specifies the full name or postscript name of a locally-installed font face using the `local()` component value, which uniquely identifies a single font face within a larger family.
    The name can optionally be enclosed in quotes.

> **Note:** The {{domxref("Local Font Access API", "Local Font Access API", "", "nocode")}} can be used to access the user's locally installed font data — this includes higher-level details such as names, styles, and families, as well as the raw bytes of the underlying font files.

## Description

The value of this descriptor is a prioritized, comma-separated list of external references or locally-installed font face names, where each resource is specified using `url()` or `local()`. When a font is needed, the {{glossary("user agent")}} iterates over the set of references listed using the first one it can successfully activate. Fonts containing invalid data or local font faces that are not found are ignored and the user agent loads the next font in the list.

> If multiple `src` descriptors are set, only the last declared rule that is able to load a resource is applied.

Reviewer: This is important. It means that the browser may download multiple font files even if there is a local file on the device, and that the local version may not be used if the last src doesn't include a local. Should we give advice about this line?

Author: Good, added in 1de84f2e274257db9147e273c1cd8f90eb991100

> **Note:** Values within descriptors that the browser considers invalid are ignored.

> > Some browsers will ignore the whole descriptor if any item is invalid, even if only one item is invalid.

Reviewer: is this still true, or was this an old IE thing?

Author: See Hamish's comment in https://github.com/mdn/content/pull/23375#discussion_r1062967018

> This may affect design of fallbacks.

As with other URLs in CSS, the URL may be relative, in which case it is resolved relative to the location of the style sheet containing the `@font-face` rule. In the case of SVG fonts, the URL points to an element within a document containing SVG font definitions. If the element reference is omitted, a reference to the first defined font is implied. Similarly, font container formats that can contain more than one font load only one of the fonts for a given `@font-face` rule. Fragment identifiers are used to indicate which font to load. If a container format lacks a defined fragment identifier scheme, a simple 1-based indexing scheme (e.g., "font-collection#1" for the first font, "font-collection#2" for the second font, etc.) is used.

> If the font file is a container for multiple fonts, a fragment identifier is included to indicate which sub-font should be used:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
If the font file is a container for multiple fonts, a fragment identifier is included to indicate the sub-font that should be used, as shown below:
```

```css
/* WhichFont is the PostScript name of a font in the font file */
src: url(collection.otc#WhichFont);
/* WhichFont is the element id of a font in the SVG Font file */
src: url(fonts.svg#WhichFont);
```

### Font formats

> The following table shows the valid values and their corresponding font formats.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The following table shows the valid font keywords and their corresponding font formats.
```

| `collection`        | OpenType Collection   | .otc, .ttc        |
| `embedded-opentype` | Embedded OpenType     | .eot              |
| `opentype`          | OpenType              | .otf, .ttf        |
| `svg`               | SVG Font (deprecated) | .svg, .svgz       |
| `truetype`          | TrueType              | .ttf              |
| `woff`              | WOFF 1.0              | .woff             |
| `woff2`             | WOFF 2.0              | .woff2            |

> **Note:** The `opentype` and `truetype` values are equivalent whether the font file uses cubic bezier curves (within CFF/CFF2 table) or quadratic bezier curves (within glyph table).

Older non-normalized `format()` values have the following equivalent syntax:

| Old syntax                      | Equivalent syntax                   |
| ------------------------------- | ----------------------------------- |
| `format("woff2-variations")`    | `format(woff2) tech(variations)`    |
| `format("woff-variations")`     | `format(woff) tech(variations)`     |
| `format("opentype-variations")` | `format(opentype) tech(variations)` |
| `format("truetype-variations")` | `format(truetype) tech(variations)` |

> > **Note:** `format(svg)` stands for [SVG fonts](/en-US/docs/Web/SVG/Tutorial/SVG_fonts), and `tech(color-SVG)` stands for [OpenType fonts with SVG table](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/typography/opentype/spec/svg) (also called OpenType-SVG color fonts), which are completely different.

Reviewer: Suggestion: put this not above this table, below the previous table that it relates to.

Author: done in 1de84f2e274257db9147e273c1cd8f90eb991100

### Font technologies

The following table shows valid values for the `tech()` descriptor and their corresponding font technologies.

> To check if a font technology is supported by a browser within CSS, use the {{cssxref("@supports", "@supports")}} rule.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
To check if a font technology is supported by a browser within CSS, use the {{cssxref("@supports", "@supports")}} at-rule.
```

> | Keyword             | Description                                                                                   |

Reviewer: Is there a resource we can link to explaining this stuff in more detail, either here or in the see also?

Author: I can't find anything nice and concise that covers all of these ([the spec](https://www.w3.org/TR/css-fonts-4/#font-tech-definitions) btw).

| `features-graphite` | Graphite features, namely `Silf`, `Glat` , `Gloc` , `Feat`, and `Sill` tables                 |
| `features-opentype` | OpenType `GSUB` and `GPOS` tables                                                             |
| `incremental`       | Incremental font loading                                                                      |
| `palettes`          | Font palettes by means of `font-palette` to select one of many color palettes in the font     |
| `variations`        | Font variations in TrueType and OpenType fonts to control the font axis, weight, glyphs, etc. |

## Formal definition

{{cssinfo}}

## Formal syntax

```
<url> [ format(<font-format>)]? [ tech( <font-tech>#)]? | local(<font-face-name>)

<font-format>= [<string> | collection | embedded-opentype | opentype
 | svg | truetype | woff | woff2 ]

<font-tech>= [<font-feature-tech> | <color-font-tech>
 | variations | palettes | incremental ]

<font-feature-tech>= [feature-opentype | feature-aat | feature-graphite]

<color-font-tech>= [color-COLRv0 | color-COLRv1 | color-SVG | color-sbix | color-CBDT ]
```

## Examples

### Specifying font resources using url() and local()

> In this example, a `font-family` is defined with the name `MainText` which has two font faces.
> The first is a regular font face, and the second is a bold version of the same font family.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
The example below shows how to define two font faces with the same font family. The `font-family` is named `MainText`. The first font face has a regular font, and the second one is a bold version of the same font family.
```

```css

> /* a regular font face: */

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
/* Defining a regular font face */
```

@font-face {
  font-family: MainText;
  src: local(Futura-Medium),

>     url('FuturaMedium.woff') format("woff"),

Reviewer: do you want to include using a #subsection of a font?

Author: done in 1de84f2e274257db9147e273c1cd8f90eb991100

    url('FuturaMedium.otf') format("opentype");
    format("opentype");
}

> /* Defining a different bold font face for the same family: */

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
/* Defining a different bold font face for the same family */
```

@font-face {
  font-family: MainText;
  src: local(Gill Sans Bold), /* full font name */
    local(GillSans-Bold), /* postscript name */
    url('GillSansBold.woff') format("woff"),
    url('GillSansBold.otf') format("opentype");
  font-weight: bold;
}

> /* using the regular font face: */

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
/* Using the regular font face */
```

p {
  font-family: MainText;
}

> /* using the bold font face: */

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
/* Using the bold font face */
```

> p.bold {
>   font-family: MainText;
>   font-weight: bold;

Reviewer: ```suggestion
p.bold {
  font-weight: bold;
```

> /* using the bold font face: */
> p.bold {
>   font-family: MainText;
>   font-weight: bold;
> }

Reviewer: ```suggestion
/* Font-family is inherited, but bold fonts are used: */
p.bold {
  font-weight: bold;
}
```
